docs/tools.md, before:

# Tools of Titans
### Systems over Goals
A goal is a clearly defined objective that a person wants to achieve.  A system is a process which facilitates progress towards a goal.

Goal focused people often experience an emotional roller-coaster depending on whether the goal is achieved or not. Systems oriented people succeed every time they apply the process towards a goal.  

Systems win in the long run.  

One of the best examples of a system based approach is reflected in Amazon's management leadership practices.  Their system facilitates a relentless forward progress towards objectives.  It continues to scale exceptionally well, Amazon's present size of the organization, market share, product differentiation and customer loyalty are at unprecedented levels and continue to grow.

James Clear (author of ["Atomic Habits"](https://www.amazon.com/Atomic-Habits-Proven-Build-Break/dp/0735211299)) has an excellent post about goals vs systems [here](https://jamesclear.com/goals-systems). Scott Adams (author of "Dilbert") has also written an excellent post about goals vs systems [here](https://www.scottadamssays.com/2013/11/18/goals-vs-systems/).

For an excellent introduction to the Amazon management system please read ["The Amazon Management System: The Ultimate Digital Business Engine That Creates Extraordinary Value for Both Customers and Shareholders"](https://www.amazon.com/Amazon-Management-System-Extraordinary-Shareholders-ebook/dp/B081S5YPK8) book.

### Fasting
- Do you feel sluggish after your meals?
- Is your brain a bit foggy at times?
- Does your blood sugar spike up and down?
- Are you having trouble focusing?

Intermittent fasting is a system of restricting food intake in order to help the body expend stored calories. I have experienced multiple benefits of this approach and have been practicing various forms of intermittent fasting over many years.

A common form of intermittent fasting is the 16/8 method which involves limiting consumption of foods and calorie-containing beverages to a set window of eight hours per day and abstaining from food for the remaining 16 hours.

This cycle can be repeated as frequently as you like and is popular especially among those looking to lose weight and burn fat. While other diets often set strict rules and regulations, 16/8 intermittent fasting is easy to follow and can provide real results with minimal effort. It’s generally considered less restrictive and more flexible than many other diet plans and can easily fit into just about any lifestyle.

For additional information please look at this Harvard funded [study](https://www.health.harvard.edu/heart-health/time-to-try-intermittent-fasting) and for a practical how to guide read this [article](https://perfectketo.com/16-8-intermittent-fasting-ketosis/).

This is not medical advice, please check with your doctor first before attempting to fast.

### Daily mindfulness and/or meditation
### Continuous reading
### Attain focus by listening to a single song/binaural beats
- Are you having trouble focusing?
- Is it difficult for you to calm your mind?
- Is your brain having a million thoughts a minute and you need a break?
- Are you finding practicing mindfulness difficult?

Binaural beat is a multi tone signal you hear with a slightly different frequency per ear. Your brain processes a beat at the difference of the frequencies resulting in a series of surprising effects.

Binaural beats are often associated with practice of meditation, a number of additional benefits have also been identified:

- reduced anxiety
- increases focus and concentration
- lowers stress
- foster positive moods
- promotes creativity
- helps to manage pain

I have experienced all of the above outcomes as a result of listening to binaural beats daily and recommend that you find an iOS/Android app for your phone. Most of these apps come with pre-configured beat frequencies commonly found to induce a particular mood, meditative state, increased focus or simply assist with falling asleep. I have also experienced similar results by listening to the same song continuously over an extended period of time.

For additional information please look at this ["Auditory Beat Stimulation and its Effects on Cognition and Mood States"](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4428073/) research study and for practical how to guide read this [article](https://www.healthline.com/health/binaural-beats#potential-benefits).

### "Spec" work, create a project and try to sell it
### Take supplements (vitamins)
### Exercise Daily
### Atomic habits
### Develop an OCD
### Crazy ideas are good
### Its ok to say "NO"
### Take the time to think
### Define your own happiness
### Take a chance
### Go in sprints
### Do what scares your
### Try doing the opposite and learn

### 30/60/90 plan
- Are you about to start a new project and don't know how?
- How do you define and prioritize the work?
- What system could you apply to organize yourself and the team?

This is a system to organize activity in order to provide clarity on how to proceed.  For simplicity of understanding consider 30 to be immediate, 60 as near term and 90 as the long term.

  1. Begin the work by gathering requirements necessary to define the following:

  - Vision
  - Objectives
  - Key Results
  - Stakeholder

  2. The next step is to create a planning matrix as follows:

  | Right Now (30) | Medium Term (60) | Long Term (90) |
  | --- | --- | --- |
  | Build Solution | Build Solution | Build Solution |
  | Data Provisions | Data Provisions | Data Provisions |
  | Increase Adoption | Increase Adoption | Increase Adoption |

  This is an example of a product development matrix but it can be adapted to any situation.

  3. The next step is to identify and classify activity for each of the placeholders within the above matrix.  In other words, given the appropriate “time” bucket (for example "Right Now (30)") begin by breaking down the objectives into tasks that must happen immediately. For example, prototyping and end to end test (“Hello World”) system should be in the first 30.

To see a practical example of a 30/60/90 plan focused on what to do in a new job [click here](https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/starting-new-job/30-60-90-day-plan).

### 80/20 rule
Another effective system to decide priority of execution is known as the ["Pareto Principle"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pareto_principle), often referred to as the 80/20 rule.  The basic premise is that 20% of the identified work is responsible for the 80% of the outcome value. This approach can be combined with another system, for example the 30/60/90 plan.  In such a scenario, the work activity identified in each of the "time" buckets would be prioritized as to first begin the work on a small subset of the activities (the 20%) that delivers 80% of the results.

### Financial literacy
### Public speaking
### Radical candor
### Tracking metrics
### Frugality
### Bias towards action
### Business writing
### Value your time
### Think long term
### Conscious actions (physical, emotional, energy, mental)
  [https://goop.com/wellness/spirituality/the-four-bodies/](https://goop.com/wellness/spirituality/the-four-bodies/)

### Career Progression
- Do you wonder what's next?  
- How can you judge the next opportunity?
- What should you do?
- Stay or go?

This is a system based approach to apply judgement to the decision making process that impacts your career.  Please, rate the following four items in the order of importance to you, and only you (do not consider external input).

- Money
- Power
- Experience
- Creation

The order of the above four items indicates how you should evaluate the opportunity you are considering.  Write down your understanding of the situation in the context of the topic (Money, Power, Experience, Creation).  Simplify your writing, remove unnecessary adjectives and review.  Your writing should be simple, crisp, keep sentences less than 13 words long.  

Now imagine placing these topics on a balance scale, your first topic should feel as if its 80% of the total weight.  If it does, then this is what is truly important to you and should be used to decide your next move.

Commit message:

Content, content and more content

docs/tools.md, after:

# Tools of Titans
### Systems over Goals
A goal is a clearly defined objective that a person wants to achieve.  A system is a process which facilitates progress towards a goal.

Goal focused people often experience an emotional roller-coaster depending on whether the goal is achieved or not. Systems oriented people succeed every time they apply the process towards a goal.  

Systems win in the long run.  

One of the best examples of a system based approach is reflected in Amazon's management leadership practices.  Their system facilitates a relentless forward progress towards objectives.  It continues to scale exceptionally well, Amazon's present size of the organization, market share, product differentiation and customer loyalty are at unprecedented levels and continue to grow.

James Clear (author of ["Atomic Habits"](https://www.amazon.com/Atomic-Habits-Proven-Build-Break/dp/0735211299)) has an excellent post about goals vs systems [here](https://jamesclear.com/goals-systems). Scott Adams (author of "Dilbert") has also written an excellent post about goals vs systems [here](https://www.scottadamssays.com/2013/11/18/goals-vs-systems/).

For an excellent introduction to the Amazon management system please read ["The Amazon Management System: The Ultimate Digital Business Engine That Creates Extraordinary Value for Both Customers and Shareholders"](https://www.amazon.com/Amazon-Management-System-Extraordinary-Shareholders-ebook/dp/B081S5YPK8) book.

### Fasting
- Do you feel sluggish after your meals?
- Is your brain a bit foggy at times?
- Does your blood sugar spike up and down?
- Are you having trouble focusing?

Intermittent fasting is a system of restricting food intake in order to help the body expend stored calories. I have experienced multiple benefits of this approach and have been practicing various forms of intermittent fasting over many years.

A common form of intermittent fasting is the 16/8 method which involves limiting consumption of foods and calorie-containing beverages to a set window of eight hours per day and abstaining from food for the remaining 16 hours.

This cycle can be repeated as frequently as you like and is popular especially among those looking to lose weight and burn fat. While other diets often set strict rules and regulations, 16/8 intermittent fasting is easy to follow and can provide real results with minimal effort. It’s generally considered less restrictive and more flexible than many other diet plans and can easily fit into just about any lifestyle.

For additional information please look at this Harvard funded [study](https://www.health.harvard.edu/heart-health/time-to-try-intermittent-fasting) and for a practical how to guide read this [article](https://perfectketo.com/16-8-intermittent-fasting-ketosis/).

This is not medical advice, please check with your doctor first before attempting to fast.

### Daily mindfulness and/or meditation
### Continuous reading
- Are you seeking knowledge?
- Do you want to become a better writer?
- Are you looking to grow your ability to comprehend?
- Seeking alternative perspectives?
- Do you want to improve your odds of success?

Continuous reading is yet another system to learn from others, perhaps even more important as a system of discovery for what mistakes to avoid. Reading helps us better understand people on an intimate level, may even help increase our empathy. Books challenge us to grow, as your mind is forced to wrestle in order to comprehend. At times you can feel the neural pathways forming.

A great perspective on reading can be found in a blog titled ["Why Read? Advice From Harold Bloom"](https://fs.blog/2020/10/why-read/), and another great source of reading tips come from no other than [Naval Ravikant](https://nav.al/) on this [blog post](https://alexandbooks.com/archive/16-reading-tips-from-naval-ravikant)

### Attain focus by listening to a single song/binaural beats
- Are you having trouble focusing?
- Is it difficult for you to calm your mind?
- Is your brain having a million thoughts a minute and you need a break?
- Are you finding practicing mindfulness difficult?

Binaural beat is a multi tone signal you hear with a slightly different frequency per ear. Your brain processes a beat at the difference of the frequencies resulting in a series of surprising effects.

Binaural beats are often associated with practice of meditation, a number of additional benefits have also been identified:

- reduced anxiety
- increases focus and concentration
- lowers stress
- foster positive moods
- promotes creativity
- helps to manage pain

I have experienced all of the above outcomes as a result of listening to binaural beats daily and recommend that you find an iOS/Android app for your phone. Most of these apps come with pre-configured beat frequencies commonly found to induce a particular mood, meditative state, increased focus or simply assist with falling asleep. I have also experienced similar results by listening to the same song continuously over an extended period of time.

For additional information please look at this ["Auditory Beat Stimulation and its Effects on Cognition and Mood States"](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4428073/) research study and for practical how to guide read this [article](https://www.healthline.com/health/binaural-beats#potential-benefits).

### "Spec" work, create a project and try to sell it
### Take supplements (vitamins)
### Exercise Daily
### Atomic habits
### Develop an OCD
### Crazy ideas are good
### Its ok to say "NO"
### Take the time to think
### Define your own happiness
### Take a chance
### Go in sprints
### Do what scares your
### Try doing the opposite and learn

### 30/60/90 plan
- Are you about to start a new project and don't know how?
- How do you define and prioritize the work?
- What system could you apply to organize yourself and the team?

This is a system to organize activity in order to provide clarity on how to proceed.  For simplicity of understanding consider 30 to be immediate, 60 as near term and 90 as the long term.

  1. Begin the work by gathering requirements necessary to define the following:

  - Vision
  - Objectives
  - Key Results
  - Stakeholder

  2. The next step is to create a planning matrix as follows:

  | Right Now (30) | Medium Term (60) | Long Term (90) |
  | --- | --- | --- |
  | Build Solution | Build Solution | Build Solution |
  | Data Provisions | Data Provisions | Data Provisions |
  | Increase Adoption | Increase Adoption | Increase Adoption |

  This is an example of a product development matrix but it can be adapted to any situation.

  3. The next step is to identify and classify activity for each of the placeholders within the above matrix.  In other words, given the appropriate “time” bucket (for example "Right Now (30)") begin by breaking down the objectives into tasks that must happen immediately. For example, prototyping and end to end test (“Hello World”) system should be in the first 30.

To see a practical example of a 30/60/90 plan focused on what to do in a new job [click here](https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/starting-new-job/30-60-90-day-plan).

### 80/20 rule
Another effective system to decide priority of execution is known as the ["Pareto Principle"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pareto_principle), often referred to as the 80/20 rule.  The basic premise is that 20% of the identified work is responsible for the 80% of the outcome value. This approach can be combined with another system, for example the 30/60/90 plan.  In such a scenario, the work activity identified in each of the "time" buckets would be prioritized as to first begin the work on a small subset of the activities (the 20%) that delivers 80% of the results.

### Financial literacy
### Public speaking
### Radical candor
### Tracking metrics
### Frugality
### Bias towards action
### Business writing
### Value your time
### Think long term
### Conscious actions (physical, emotional, energy, mental)
  [https://goop.com/wellness/spirituality/the-four-bodies/](https://goop.com/wellness/spirituality/the-four-bodies/)

### Career Progression
- Do you wonder what's next?  
- How can you judge the next opportunity?
- What should you do?
- Stay or go?

This is a system based approach to apply judgement to the decision making process that impacts your career.  Please, rate the following four items in the order of importance to you, and only you (do not consider external input).

- Money
- Power
- Experience
- Creation

The order of the above four items indicates how you should evaluate the opportunity you are considering.  Write down your understanding of the situation in the context of the topic (Money, Power, Experience, Creation).  Simplify your writing, remove unnecessary adjectives and review.  Your writing should be simple, crisp, keep sentences less than 13 words long.  

Now imagine placing these topics on a balance scale, your first topic should feel as if its 80% of the total weight.  If it does, then this is what is truly important to you and should be used to decide your next move.
